# Halite_III_v1.0
A bot that has been designed for the [Halite III challenge](https://halite.io/). A resource management game, the goal is to build a bot that efficiently navigates the seas collecting halite, a luminous energy resource, while in competition with other players.

The replay file can be played [here](https://halite.io/watch-games). New matches can be generated by running the 'run_game.bat' file. Bot logs will be created in the root folder, and replays will be created in the /replays folder.

## 'The Professor' v1.0
The final bot (v1.0), playfully named 'The Professor', is a culmination of a month's work and has been competing against a rotating pool of bots for over 2 months and 2000+ games. The bot has maintained its place within the top 25% of players, even as the total number of contestants grew from ~500 to over 3000. The bot's performance metrics can be viewed on [Halite's website](https://halite.io/user/?user_id=1460), including visual replays of the games against other players.

This version of the bot utilized custom functions, located in [optimizers.py](https://github.com/brianrudolf/Halite_III_v1/blob/master/hlt/optimizers.py), which:
- Mapped the amount of Halite (the game resource) on the sea floor (map_halite)
- Calculated the distance from each ship to the different locations on the map (dist_to_shipyard, dist_to_cells)
- Optimized the movement of all of the ships in play via two navigation routines (costly_navigate, navigate)

## 'The Professor' v0.8
'The Professor' v0.8 was the last revision-in-progress that used a simple one to two step search to check the locations within two squares of each ship for 'worthwhile' Halite deposits (a variable amount that was empircally chosen). This was a two step process to first find the largest deposit within one square of a ship's location, and only moved to check in locations two squares away from the ship if there was not a worthwhile deposit close to the ship. 

This process was implemented due to its simplicity, as it allowed a quick advance to other aspects of the bot. As it turned out, this method of locating Halite and deciding where to mine was similarly as efficient as the more specific "locate an optimal location to mine and pursue" routines that were implemented for v1.0. 
